Logging
=======

Ocelot uses the standard logging interfaces ``ILoggerFactory`` and ``ILogger<T>`` at the moment.
This is encapsulated in ``IOcelotLogger`` and ``IOcelotLoggerFactory`` with the implementation for the standard `ASP.NET Core logging <https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/aspnet/core/fundamentals/logging/>`_ stuff at the moment.
This is because Ocelot adds some extra info to the logs such as **RequestId** if it is configured.

There is a global `error handler middleware <https://github.com/search?q=repo%3AThreeMammals%2FOcelot%20ExceptionHandlerMiddleware&type=code>`_ that should catch any exceptions thrown and log them as errors.

Finally, if logging is set to ``Trace`` level, Ocelot will log starting, finishing and any middlewares that throw an exception which can be quite useful.

Request ID
----------

The reason for not just using `bog standard <https://notoneoffbritishisms.com/2015/03/27/bog-standard/>`_ framework logging is that
we could not work out how to override the **RequestId** that get's logged when setting **IncludeScopes** to ``true`` for logging settings.
Nicely onto the next feature.

Every log record has these 2 properties:

* **RequestId** represents ID of the current request as plain string, for example ``0HMVD33IIJRFR:00000001``
* **PreviousRequestId** represents ID of the previous request

As an ``IOcelotLogger`` interface object being injected to constructors of service classes, current default Ocelot logger (``OcelotLogger`` class) reads these 2 properties from the ``IRequestScopedDataRepository`` interface object.
Find out more about these properties and other details on the *Request ID* logging feature in the  :doc:`../features/requestid` chapter.

.. _logging-warning:

Warning
-------

If you are logging to MS `Console <https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/api/system.console>`_, you will get terrible performance.
The team has had so many issues about performance issues with Ocelot and it is always logging level ``Debug``, logging to `Console <https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/api/system.console>`_.

* **Warning!** Make sure you are logging to something proper in production environment!
* Use ``Error`` and ``Critical`` levels in production environment!
* Use ``Warning`` level in testing & staging environments!

These and other recommendations are below in the :ref:`logging-best-practices` section.

.. _logging-best-practices:

Best Practices
--------------

    | Microsoft Learn сomplete reference: `Logging in .NET Core and ASP.NET Core <https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/aspnet/core/fundamentals/logging/>`_

Our recommendations to gain Ocelot best logging are the following.

First
^^^^^

Ensure minimum level while `Configure logging <https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/aspnet/core/fundamentals/logging/#configure-logging>`_.
The minimum log level is set in the application's ``appsettings.json`` file. This level is defined in the **Logging** section, for example:

.. code-block:: json

  {
    "Logging": {
      "LogLevel": {
        "Default": "Information",
        "Microsoft.AspNetCore": "Warning"
      }
    }
  }

Whether using `Serilog <https://serilog.net/>`_ or the standard Microsoft providers, the logging configuration will be retrieved from this section.

.. code-block:: csharp

    .ConfigureAppConfiguration((_, config) =>
    {
        config.AddJsonFile($"appsettings.{env.EnvironmentName}.json", false, false);
        // ...
    })

However, there is one thing to be aware of. It is possible to use the ``SetMinimumLevel()`` method to define the minimum logging level.
Be careful and make sure you set the log level in one place only, like:

.. code-block:: csharp

    ConfigureLogging(logging =>
    {
        logging.ClearProviders();
        logging.SetMinimumLevel(minLogLevel);
        logging.AddConsole(); // MS Console for Development and/or Testing environments only
    })

Please also use the ``ClearProviders()`` method, so that only the providers you wish to use are taken into account, as in the example above, the console.

Second
^^^^^^

Ensure proper usage of minimum logging level for each environment: development, testing, production, etc.
So, once again, read important notes of the :ref:`logging-warning` section! 

Third
^^^^^

Ocelot's logging has been improved in `22.0 <https://github.com/ThreeMammals/Ocelot/releases/tag/22.0.0>`_ version:
it is now possible to use a factory method for message strings that will only be executed if the minimum log level allows it.

For example, let's take a message containing information about several variables that should only be generated if the minimum log level is ``Debug``.
If the minimum log level is ``Warning`` then the string is never generated.

Therefore, when the string contains dynamic information aka ``string.Format``, or string value is generated by `string interpolation <https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/csharp/tutorials/string-interpolation>`_ expression,
it is recommended to call the log method using anonymous delegate via an ``=>`` expression function:

.. code-block:: csharp

    Logger.LogDebug(() => $"downstream templates are {string.Join(", ", response.Data.Route.DownstreamRoute.Select(r => r.DownstreamPathTemplate.Value))}");

otherwise a constant string is sufficient

.. code-block:: csharp

    Logger.LogDebug("My const string");

Performance Review
------------------

Ocelot's logging performance has been improved in version `22.0 <https://github.com/ThreeMammals/Ocelot/releases/tag/22.0.0>`__ (see PR `1745 <https://github.com/ThreeMammals/Ocelot/pull/1745>`_).
These changes were requested as part of issue `1744 <https://github.com/ThreeMammals/Ocelot/issues/1744>`_ after team's `discussion <https://github.com/ThreeMammals/Ocelot/discussions/1736>`_.

Top Logging Performance?
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Here is a quick recipe for your Production environment!
You need to ensure the minimal level is ``Critical`` or ``None``. Nothing more!
For sure, having top logging performance means having less log records written by logging provider. So, logs should be pretty empty.

Anyway, during the first time after a version release to production, we recommend to watch the system and current version app behavior by specifying ``Error`` minimum level.
If release engineer will ensure stability of the version in production then minimum level can be increased to ``Critical`` or ``None`` to gain top performance.
Technically this will switch off the logging feature at all.

Run Benchmarks
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

We have 2 types of benchmarks currently

* ``SerilogBenchmarks`` with Serilog logging to a file. See ``ConfigureLogging`` method with ``logging.AddSerilog(_logger);``
* ``MsLoggerBenchmarks`` with MS default logging to MS Console. See ``ConfigureLogging`` method with ``logging.AddConsole();``

Benchmark results largely depend on the environment and hardware on which they run.
We are pleased to invite you to run Logging benchmarks on your machine by the following instructions below.

1. Open PowerShell or Command Prompt console
2. Build Ocelot solution in Release mode: ``dotnet build --configuration Release``
3. Go to ``test\Ocelot.Benchmarks\bin\Release\`` folder.
4. Choose .NET version changing the folder, for example to ``net8.0``
5. Run **Ocelot.Benchmarks.exe**: ``.\Ocelot.Benchmarks.exe``
6. Run ``SerilogBenchmarks`` or ``MsLoggerBenchmarks`` by pressing appropriate number of a benchmark: ``5`` or ``6``, + Enter
7. Wait for 3+ minutes to complete benchmark, and get final results.
8. Read and analize your benchmark session results.

Indicators
^^^^^^^^^^

``To be developed...``
